.. _notices-and-disclaimers:

Notices and Disclaimers
=======================


.. container:: section
   :name: GUID-0EE40255-2BB3-443E-B912-AB20CCA79E57


   No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any
   intellectual property rights is granted by this document.


   Intel technologies' features and benefits depend on system
   configuration and may require enabled hardware, software or service
   activation. Performance varies depending on system configuration. No
   product or component can be absolutely secure. Check with your system
   manufacturer or retailer or learn more at [intel.com].


   Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without
   limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a
   particular purpose, and non-infringement, as well as any warranty
   arising from course of performance, course of dealing, or usage in
   trade.


   This document contains information on products, services and/or
   processes in development. All information provided here is subject to
   change without notice. Contact your Intel representative to obtain
   the latest forecast, schedule, specifications and roadmaps.


   The products and services described may contain defects or errors
   which may cause deviations from published specifications. Current
   characterized errata are available on request.


Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Atom, Intel Core, Intel Xeon Phi, VTune and
Xeon are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or other
countries.


\*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.


Microsoft, Windows, and the Windows logo are trademarks, or registered
trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other
countries.


OpenCL and the OpenCL logo are trademarks of Apple Inc. used by
permission by Khronos.


Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.


Â© Intel Corporation.


This software and the related documents are Intel copyrighted materials,
and your use of them is governed by the express license under which they
were provided to you (**License**). Unless the License provides
otherwise, you may not use, modify, copy, publish, distribute, disclose
or transmit this software or the related documents without Intel's prior
written permission.


This software and the related documents are provided as is, with no
express or implied warranties, other than those that are expressly
stated in the License.


.. container:: tablenoborder


   .. list-table:: 
      :header-rows: 1

      * -  
      * -     Intel's compilers may or may not optimize to the same    degree for non-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not   unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2,   SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does   not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of   any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel.   Microprocessor-dependent optimizations in this product are intended   for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not   specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel   microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and   Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific   instruction sets covered by this notice.        Notice   revision #20110804    




Unless stated otherwise, the code examples in this document are provided
to you under an MIT license, the terms of which are as follows:


Copyright 2019 Intel Corporation


Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:


The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.


THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

